# Setup

You can use the following commands to make a fresh clone of your repository:

```
git clone -b q4 git@gitlab.epfl.ch:lamp/students-repositories-fall-2020/cs210-GASPAR.git cs210-q4
cd cs210-q4
```

You can always refer to:
  * [the example guide](https://gitlab.epfl.ch/lamp/cs210/blob/master/labs/example-lab.md) on the development workflow.
  * [this guide](https://gitlab.epfl.ch/lamp/cs210/blob/master/labs/grading-and-submission.md) for details on the submission system.
  * [The documentation of the Scala standard library](https://www.scala-lang.org/files/archive/api/2.13.3)
  * [The documentation of the Java standard
    library](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/index.html)

**If you have issues with the IDE, try [reimporting the build](https://gitlab.epfl.ch/lamp/cs210/-/blob/master/labs/example-lab.md#ide-features-like-type-on-hover-or-go-to-definition-do-not-work), if you still have problems, use `compile` in sbt instead.**

# Be functional!

This course is about **functional** programming, therefore you're not allowed to use the following
constructs in this assignment:
- `var`
- `while`
- `return`
- Any class in the `scala.collection.mutable` package

# Exercise

In this exercise, we provide you with the interpreter presented in the lab.
The language implemented here already supports lists and match expressions.
The available nodes are defined in the enum `Expr`.
The environment contains `definitions` of functions.
We provide you with the `isempty` function as an example, that can be used if needed in this exercise to implement the target function.

Your task in this exercise is to implement the `drop` function inside the `definitions` environment map.
The `drop` function takes as arguments an integer `n` and a list, and returns the list without its `n` first elements.
If the list has less than `n` elements then it returns `Empty`.
If the `n` is 0, then the result is the original list.
You can safely assume that `n` is greater or equal to 0.

Here are some examples:

```
val list = Cons(C(1), Cons(C(2), Cons(C(3), Empty)))
val res = Call(Call(N("drop"), C(1)), list)
// res should evaluate to Cons(C(2),Cons(C(3), Empty))

```

And

```
val list = Cons(C(1), Cons(C(2), Cons(C(3), Empty)))
val res = Call(Call(N("drop"), C(5)), list)
// res should evaluate to Empty
```

And

```
val list = Cons(C(1), Cons(C(2), Cons(C(3), Empty)))
val res = Call(Call(N("drop"), C(0)), list)
// res should evaluate to Cons(C(1), Cons(C(2), Cons(C(3), Empty)))
```
