# Setup

You can use the following commands to make a fresh clone of your repository:

```
git clone -b q15 git@gitlab.epfl.ch:lamp/students-repositories-fall-2020/cs210-GASPAR.git cs210-q15
cd cs210-q15
```

You can always refer to:
  * [the example guide](https://gitlab.epfl.ch/lamp/cs210/blob/master/labs/example-lab.md) on the development workflow.
  * [this guide](https://gitlab.epfl.ch/lamp/cs210/blob/master/labs/grading-and-submission.md) for details on the submission system.
  * [The documentation of the Scala standard library](https://www.scala-lang.org/files/archive/api/2.13.3)
  * [The documentation of the Java standard
    library](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/index.html)

**If you have issues with the IDE, try [reimporting the build](https://gitlab.epfl.ch/lamp/cs210/-/blob/master/labs/example-lab.md#ide-features-like-type-on-hover-or-go-to-definition-do-not-work), if you still have problems, use `compile` in sbt instead.**

# Be functional!

This course is about **functional** programming, therefore you're not allowed to use the following
constructs in this assignment:
- `var`
- `while`
- `return`
- Any class in the `scala.collection.mutable` package

# Exercise

**Your task in this exercise is to complete the definition of `myGenerator` in
`Q15.scala` to make all the tests pass.** As usual, run `test` from sbt to run
all the tests. The sources of the tests are available in `Q15Suite.scala`.

## Property testing

Most of the tests are _property tests_ written using Scalacheck, you've already
used Scalacheck in the labs but here's a refresher, a property test looks like this:

```scala
property("commutativity of addition") {
  forAll { (n: Int, m: Int) =>
    assertEquals(n + m, m + n)
  }
}
```

When we run this test, the lambda inside `forAll` will be called multiple times
with random values passed as arguments for `n` and `m`, the test will succeed if
the assertion in the body of the lambda is true for all these arguments.

### Understanding test failures

The following property is not always true:

```scala
property("wrong") {
  forAll { (n: Int) =>
    assert(n > -n)
  }
}
```
If we run the tests, we see:

```scala
==> X MySuite.wrong  0.022s munit.FailException: /.../MySuite.scala:49 assertion failed
48:    forAll { (n: Int) =>
49:      assert(n > -n)
50:    }

Falsified after 0 passed tests.
> ARG_0: -1
```

- The first line tells us the name of the property that failed, as well as the
file and line of the failed assertion.
- The code below is an extract of the code around the failed assertion.
- The line below tells us how many random tests were tried before a
  counter-example to the property was found.
- The line below starting with `> ARG_0` is important: it tells us what randomly
  generated input lead to the test failure, so here we know that the issue is
  that `n > -n` is false when `n = -1`.

### Generators

The failed property above can also be written as:

```scala
property("wrong") {
  forAll(arbitrary[Int]) { (n: Int) =>
    assert(n > -n)
  }
}
```

In this version of `forAll`, we pass as argument a **generator**, the generator
(here `arbitrary[Int]`, of type `Gen[Int]`) determines what values will be
passed as arguments to the lambda. We now this property would be true if we
checked it only for strictly positive numbers, so we can make the test pass by
changing the generator to only produce such numbers:

```scala
property("correct") {
  forAll(arbitrary[Int].filter(_ > 0)) { (n: Int) =>
    assert(n > -n)
  }
}
```

In this exercise, the property tests all use the same generator `pairGen` which
is already defined. But `pairGen` itself calls `myGenerator` whose definition
you have to complete. The [`Gen`
object](https://javadoc.io/static/org.scalacheck/scalacheck_2.13/1.15.2/org/scalacheck/Gen$.html)
defines many useful generators, you are free to use any of them, but the
following subset is enough to solve this exercise:
- `arbitrary[T]` generates a random value of type `T` if an `Arbitrary` instance
  for that type exists.
- `Gen.const(a)` always generates `a`
- `Gen.oneOf(genA, genB, ...)` randomly selects one of
  its argument (which is itself a generator), and uses it to generate a value.
- `Gen.listOfN(length, gen)` generates a `List` of length `length` where each
  element is generated using `gen`.
- `Gen.alphaChar` generates a `Char` that is a letter.
- `Gen.choose(min, max)` generates a random number between `min` and `max`.

In addition, you can create new generators by calling methods like `map`,
`filter`, `flatMap` and `zip` on instances of `Gen`.


## Randomness of your generator

There is one non-property test defined in `Q15Suite.scala`:
```scala
test("Is myGenerator random enough?") {
  ...
}
```

This test checks that `myGenerator(n)` can generate at least `n` different
values, this is meant to disallow writing a generator that always returns a
constant value for a given `n`.
